KOGITO-6308 Saga example with Serverless Workflow (#1024)
kiegroup/kogito-examples: serverless-workflow-saga-quarkus/README.md

  services, microservices, serverless functions, etc. More details can be found in [kie blog][https://blog.kie.org/2021/11/saga-pattern-with-processes-and-kogito-part-1.html].
  
  <img src="docs/images/order-fulfilment.png"/>
  
 All steps, defined as states in the workflow, `stock`, `payment` and `shipping` should be executed to confirm an Order, if any of the
 steps fail, then a compensation for each completed step should be executed to undo the operation or to keep the
 process on a consistent state. For instance, the reserve stock, should cancel the stock reservation. The
 compensations for the steps are defined in the workflow using the `compensatedBy` property which indicates the state responsible to perform a compensation action.
 
  <img src="docs/images/order-saga-overview.png"/>
 
The compensations can be triggered by a transition setting the property `compensate` to `true`, this transition can be declared in 
a state that represents and error in the workflow, in the order workflow example it is the `ServiceError` state. In general the error in a state can be declared 
with the property `onErrors` which may include a transition to a state that represents this error.
  

> The functions to execute the steps and compensations in this example are implemented as using Java classes under
>  the `src` of the project, for instance [StockService][/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/StockService.java], for this example they are just mocking responses, but in a real use case they could be executing calls to external services, or any business logic. Other options are possible to declare these operations, 
>    like OpenAPI, REST, or events. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functions to execute the steps and compensations in this example are implemented using Java classes under the project's `src`, for instance, [StockService][/src/main/java/org/kie/kogito/StockService.java]. For this example, they are just mocking responses, but they could be executing calls to external services or any business logic in an actual use case. Other options can declare these operations, like OpenAPI, REST, or events. 
```

>  The start point of Saga workflow is to submit a request to create a new Order with a given `orderId`, this could be
>   any other payload that represents an `Order`, but for the sake of simplicity, in this example it will be
>    based on the `id` that could be used as a correlation key to client starting the Saga workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The start point of the Saga workflow is to submit a request to create a new Order with a given `orderId`. This could be any other payload that represents an `Order`. For the sake of simplicity, in this example, it will be based on the `id` that could be used as a correlation key to the client starting the Saga workflow.
```

>   The output of each step, is represented by a `Response` that contains a type, indicating <b>success</b> or <b>error
>   </b> and the id of the resource that was invoked in the service, but this could be any kind of response depending on
>    the requirement of each service, in case of error handling we can simply throw Java Exceptions from the service classes, 
>    in this case, the error handling is triggered with the defined transitions in the workflow, in this example the transition is taget to the `ServiceError`state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of each step is represented by a `Response` that contains a type, indicating <b>success</b> or <b>error</b>, and the id of the resource that was invoked in the service. But this could be any response depending on the requirement of each service. For error handling, we can throw Java Exceptions from the service classes. In this case, the error handling is triggered with the defined transitions in the workflow. In this example, the transition is targeted to the `ServiceError`state.
```

### Starting the Order Saga

#### POST /order_saga_error_workflow

Allows to start a new Order Saga with the given data:

Given data:

```json
{
  "workflowdata": {
   "orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
   "failService" : "none"
  }
}
```

Curl command (using the JSON object above):

```sh
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/order_saga_error_workflow -d '{"workflowdata": {"orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa","failService" : "none"}}'
```
The response for the request is returned with attributes representing the response of each step, either
 success or failure. The `orderResponse` attribute indicates if the order can be confirmed in case of success or
  canceled in case of error.

Response example:

```json
{
    "id": "3beb2fd7-1331-463e-83ca-e8cc7bd3a1d4",
    "workflowdata": {
        "orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
        "orderResponse": "SUCCESS"
    }
}
```

> In the console executing the application you can check the log it with the executed steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the console executing the application, you can check the log with the executed steps.
```

```text
2021-12-09 16:00:20,948 INFO  [org.kie.kog.StockService] (executor-thread-0) Reserve Stock for order 03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa
2021-12-09 16:00:20,954 INFO  [org.kie.kog.PaymentService] (executor-thread-0) Process Payment for order 03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa
2021-12-09 16:00:20,956 INFO  [org.kie.kog.ShippingService] (executor-thread-0) Schedule Shipping for order 03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa
2021-12-09 16:00:20,957 INFO  [org.kie.kog.OrderService] (executor-thread-0) Order Success for order 03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa
```

#### Simulating errors to activate the compensation flows

> To make testing the process easier it was introduced an optional attribute `failService` that indicates which service
>  should respond with an error. The attribute is basically the simple class name of the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An optional attribute, `failService` was introduced to make testing the process easier, which indicates which service should respond with an error. The attribute is the simple class name of the service.
```

Example:

```json
{
  "workflowdata": {
   "orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
   "failService" : "ShippingService"
  }
}
```
Curl command (using the JSON object above):

```sh
                                                                                                        }
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/order_saga_error_workflow  -d '{"workflowdata": {"orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa","failService" : "ShippingService"}}' 
```

Response example:

```json
{
    "id": "bb8a2d83-41e0-4ed7-a67b-71c1ad49c705",
    "workflowdata": {
        "orderId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
        "failService": "ShippingService",
        "orderResponse": "FAILED"
    }
}
```

> In the console executing the application you can check the log it with the executed steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the console executing the application, you can check the log with the executed steps.
```
